Hiring for green talent 
continues to grow at twice the 
pace of skills in the workforce
As the world enters a decisive phase for climate action against a backdrop of economic headwinds, LinkedIn’s latest 
research - released ahead  of the publication of its Global Green Skills Report - finds hiring of green talent has 
continued to grow twice as fast as the supply of skilled workers, as businesses focus on resilient growth. 
The green workforce is continuing to grow in 2025, but nowhere near fast enough to meet demand. The share of 
green hires increased in every single country covered by our research, but for a second year running, demand for green 
talent has grown twice as fast as the supply of it (8% vs 4%). The continued crunch means workers with green skills 
continue to have a competitive edge in a tough labour market where leaders are prioritising adaptability, getting hired 
into roles at a rate 47% above the general workforce.
Businesses in 2025 are hiring professionals with green skills into many more jobs than just the traditionally green 
ones. For the first time, workers with green skills in jobs that could traditionally be done without green skills make up over 
half (53%) of green hires. Green skills are fast becoming core business skills as companies increasingly recognize the value 
of running their operation more sustainably.
Access to green skills and jobs feels out of reach for too many workers. 4 in 10 workers (43%) tell us they would ideally 
like a job that contributes to the energy transition or climate, growing to 5 in 10 (52%) Millennial and 6 in 10 (58%) Gen Z 
workers. Workers of all generations are most worried about their lack of experience holding them back – and while most 
(56%) businesses say they’re offering comprehensive skills training to employees, 1 in 3 workers (30%) say they don’t have 
the skills they need to get a job that contributes to the energy transition and almost half (44%) say they aren’t being given 
green training at work. 
Closing the green skills gap is good for everyone - helping workers navigate a tough labour market, helping 
companies successfully navigate change, and helping governments boost competitiveness and meet climate 
commitments. Governments, business leaders and educators will need to work together to expand the green talent pool - 
fast - to unlock new opportunities for businesses and professionals alike. 
“Businesses are hungry for green talent, with demand running at double the supply of green skills for 
the second year in a row - giving professionals with those skills a real advantage as they navigate a 
tough labour market. Building sustainability into business operations has long-term value for companies, 
but progress is being held back by a stubborn green skills gap. This gap will not close without urgent, 
coordinated action on training. We need a whole-of-economy response, from governments, industry 
and educators, to embed green training at the core of every climate and business plan.”
Sue Duke | Managing Director for EMEA and Global 
Vice President of Public Policy & Economic Graph, 
LinkedIn

--- Page Break ---
Key Findings
Over the past two years, the demand for green hires has grown twice as fast as the supply of green skills in 
the workforce (8% vs 4%). The share of green hires has increased in every single country covered by our report. 
This continues a pattern seen in the past four years and signals continued demand for green skills, but the 
global pace of growth has slowed since a late 2024 peak.
Professionals with green skills are getting hired across many more roles as businesses focus on resilient 
growth. For the first time, workers with green skills in non-green jobs make up the majority of all green hires 
(51%).
Green talent is far more likely to secure a job, getting hired at a global rate 46.6% above the overall hiring 
rate. Green skills remain a valuable jobseeking asset. 
1
2
3
WHERE GREEN SKILLS ARE GROWING FASTEST
Government and industry priorities are shaping which green skills are growing fastest: modernizing energy grids; cutting 
waste and resource use across value chains; and rapidly upskilling workforces.
Reflecting these priorities, the green skills categories most frequently added by LinkedIn users in 2025 were Energy 
Management, Sustainability Education, Waste Prevention, and Sustainable Procurement.
Energy Management is the fastest-growing green skill globally – the proportion of members that added this skill was 
17.4% higher in 2025 than in 2024. Significant growth in AI-driven demand for energy and continued growth in renewable 
and nuclear energy supply see these skills growing particularly quickly in the Technology, Information and Media and 
Utilities sectors.

--- Page Break ---
THE POLICY IMPERATIVE 
1. Make workforce training a core part of climate and energy policy.
As governments assess their progress towards net zero, workforce plans must sit at the heart of climate investments - 
funding apprenticeships, vocational programmes and on-the-job training, to help the supply of green skills keep up with 
demand. 
2. Improve coordination across government.
We need greater alignment and coordination between agencies responsible for labour, education and workforce and 
those leading the push for climate, environment, and energy. These cross-agency collaboratives should also work directly 
with industry to accelerate curriculum development and promote work-based learning opportunities. 
3. Update education and training for a changing economy.
Policymakers should support updates to curricula at all levels—from primary education to universities and vocational 
programs. Continuing education and licensing requirements should also evolve to reflect sustainability competencies.
4. Track green jobs and skills in labor market data.
Government statistical agencies should integrate green jobs and skills as part of regular labor reporting to guide 
investments and programme design. 
5. Promote skills-based hiring and talent development.
LinkedIn’s 2025 research with OECD shows hiring based on skills - rather than degrees or job titles - can expand 
candidate pools sixfold. Policymakers can lead by example in public sector hiring and support standards for skill 
validation. 
For further questions, and for business case studies to support 
reporting, please contact jwing@linkedin.com
• AI could supercharge climate progress, but green upskilling is needed to unlock it. Among AI talent, the fastest-
growing green skills are focused on energy, waste and supply chain management: Operational Efficiency 
(+579%), Maintenance & Repair (+190%), Product Lifecycle Management (+152%), Process Optimization 
(+132%).
• AI is heavily resource-intensive during data center construction and model training, but once established it has 
huge potential to turbocharge progress in the green transition. The IEA recently found AI has the potential to save 
the energy equivalent of taking 120 million cars off the road.
• But  to unlock this potential, green upskilling must go even faster. When it comes to AI, the stakes are high - and 
investment in training is essential to ensure AI workers have the skills they need.
INDUSTRY INSIGHTS
Green talent is the most concentrated in the utilities industry, with 3 in 10 (29.5%) of workers having green skills, but 
even in that sector the gap between supply and demand is huge.  
The industries where green hiring has grown the most YoY from 2024 - 2025 are financial services (16.3%), retail (14.0%), 
tech (14.9%), and supply chain & logistics (11.8%).
The tech sector leads the way in the growth of green hiring over the period from 2021 - 2025, increasing an average 
of 11.2% annually. 14.7% of members in the sector have at least one green skill in 2025.  
